Semifinaali_ohjeet/english/readme.md, before:

## NSTRIM system documentation

**The service's own documentation can be found at https://mc.nstrim.io/docs/competitor and it is very helpful.
**
If the instructions in the documentation conflict with the instructions in this repository, the system documentation is more likely to be correct. We are working to clarify the usage instructions so that the deployment process will succeed more reliably.

### Competition System Login Credentials

Competitors log in to the system using personal credentials. Competitors will receive their username and password by email today. The same credentials can be used immediately for system testing and on the competition day.

The credentials will also be sent today to the competitors’ guardians for their information.

### Allowed Technologies and Tools

The following technologies are currently supported. If the list does not include a technology you wish to use, please contact the semifinal coordinator so we can determine whether it can be added.

**Frontend:** HTML, CSS, JavaScript, or React / Vue / Angular / Next (inc. TypeScript) / Svelte

**Backend:** PHP (native or Laravel) or Node.js (native or Express.js)

**Database:** MySQL

The use of pre-built UI component libraries **is not permitted.**
**Python is not an option** for backend.

The use of **artificial intelligence** is allowed and must be declared in accordance with the [instructions](ai-en.pdf).

### Questions or comments regarding the instructions?

These instructions are in effect during the competition. If you have any questions regarding the instructions, please contact the semifinal coordinator before the competition begins: laura.jarvinen(at)bc.fi

Issues? Check the listing of known issues, fixes and updates at [the front page](/README.md).

Commit message:

update instructions on forbidden ui libraries

Semifinaali_ohjeet/english/readme.md, after:

## NSTRIM system documentation

**The service's own documentation can be found at https://mc.nstrim.io/docs/competitor and it is very helpful.
**
If the instructions in the documentation conflict with the instructions in this repository, the system documentation is more likely to be correct. We are working to clarify the usage instructions so that the deployment process will succeed more reliably.

### Competition System Login Credentials

Competitors log in to the system using personal credentials. Competitors will receive their username and password by email today. The same credentials can be used immediately for system testing and on the competition day.

The credentials will also be sent today to the competitors’ guardians for their information.

### Allowed Technologies and Tools

The following technologies are currently supported. If the list does not include a technology you wish to use, please contact the semifinal coordinator so we can determine whether it can be added.

**Frontend:** HTML, CSS, JavaScript, or React / Vue / Angular / Next (inc. TypeScript) / Svelte

**Backend:** PHP (native or Laravel) or Node.js (native or Express.js)

**Database:** MySQL

The use of pre-built UI component libraries **is not permitted.** Examples of forbidden libraries include but are not limited to:

- Bootstrap
- Tailwind
- Material UI
- jQuery UI

**Python is not an option** for backend.

The use of **artificial intelligence** is allowed and must be declared in accordance with the [instructions](ai-en.pdf).

### Questions or comments regarding the instructions?

These instructions are in effect during the competition. If you have any questions regarding the instructions, please contact the semifinal coordinator before the competition begins: laura.jarvinen(at)bc.fi

Issues? Check the listing of known issues, fixes and updates at [the front page](/README.md).
